Title of the project: Skin Cancer detetion

Names: Harshvardhan Singh, Nassim Sbai

Project Description: We know how important it is to identify cancer cells in an early stage, because cancer is pretty much curable early on, but becomes
one of the most deadly diseases once the cancer cells start to spread in other organs of the body. Skin cancer alone has between 2 and 3 million cases
 each year, and it (Non-Melanoma skin cancers) sadly kill more than 5,400 worldwide each month. There are mainly 4 types of skin cancer-
 (source - https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/skin-cancer-non-melanoma/introduction)
 1. Basal cell carcinoma - Basal cells are the round cells found in the lower epidermis. About 80% cancer cells are made out of Basal cells, however they 
 grow slowly and rarely spread to different parts of the body. They appear in the form of skin cancer due to exposure to sunlight.
 2. Squamous cell carcinoma - They are made up of made up of flat, scale-like cells called squamous cells. Around 20% of skin cancers develop from 
 these cells. Squamous cell carcinoma is also mainly caused by sun exposure, so it may be diagnosed on many regions of the skin.
 About 2% to 5% of squamous cell carcinomas spread to other parts of the body.
 3. Merkel cell cancer - Merkel cell cancer is a highly aggressive, or fast-growing. Howevr this is a rare cancer. It starts in hormone-producing cells just
 beneath the skin and in the hair follicles. It is usually found in the head and neck region.
 4. Melanoma - These cells produce the pigment melanin, which gives skin its color. Melanoma starts in melanocytes, and it is the most aggressive type of 
 skin cancer. It accounts for about 1% of all skin cancers.
The main challenge is to identify the different types of skin cancer since they can look very similar, for which we would train a classification model 
using a suitable ML algorithm.

Dataset: We needed to find a dataset that would contain a good mix of all four types of skin caner, and we have found just the right dataset on Kaggle.
The dataset's cases include a representative collection of all important diagnostic categories in the realm of pigmented lesions: Actinic keratoses and 
intraepithelial carcinoma / Bowen's disease (akiec), basal cell carcinoma (bcc), benign keratosis-like lesions (solar lentigines / seborrheic keratoses 
and lichen-planus like keratoses, bkl), dermatofibroma (df), melanoma (mel), melanocytic nevi (nv) and vascular lesions (angiomas, angiokeratomas, 
pyogenic granulomas and hemorrhage, vasc). 
(https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/kmader/skin-cancer-mnist-ham10000)

tasks: 1. Our task would be to first to split our dataset into training set and testing set with am 80:20 ratio
2. In order to train our ML model we would choose a suitable classification algorithm, very likely Naive Bayes 
3. We would then perform the preprocessing of the dataset which might be a bit challenging because the dataset also consists of a few other pigmentation 
disorders which are in addition to the 4 types of skin cancers we are looking to classify. 
4. Once we are done with that, we would train our classification model to classify the 4 types of cancer cells using the training dataset
5. Next we would test our model using the testing dataset
6*. We also plan on training a segmentation model in addition to the classification model so that we can detect where exactly the cancer cell is located
as opposed to just the classification, but we would treat this step as an additional/optional task and might work on it only after we are done training 
the classification model.
